Now we worked on code that allows us to emit the event when we create a new post.
Now obviously we're not just creating posts, we're also updating or deleting posts,
we want to be able to handle that
too. Now let's do that together and let's continue with updating posts, so on the backend in the feed controller,
I'll scroll down to the update post method and in there, we want to emit an event
once we're done updating,
so towards the end, once we got our result we save the post and we're sending a response. Here
I'll again use io, get io to get access to our established io connection
you could say and I'll again emit on this posts channel and I'll emit my data just as before.
Now I will keep my pattern of having an action where I this time write update because this is the action
we performed and my post is then my result here because result
turns out to be the result of my saving operation.
Now just as before, I want to be sure that I also have some user data in there, so we'll actually scroll
up or we find that post and I will populate it with my creator data,
this again will take that creator ID which we stored in the post object,
reach out to the users database or the users collection, fetch the data for that specific user and add it
here in our post.
Now I do emit this event where I send my created post
and let's now go back to our frontend application here and also establish some code here to update our
posts. For this, after this add post function,
I'll add a new function which I'll name update
post where I again get my post data and then I do something with that in the arrow function and as before,
I prepared some code which we just copy in there which we'll add or which we'll update to post in our
list of posts.
Now also scroll down in your react code here in the same file to the finish edit handler because there
where I also have some logic to edit the post, here
I will get rid of that,
I will actually get rid of this entire part here and also of my update post assignment in this return
statement in set state call because I now no longer update it here but I do emit the event to all connected
clients including the client who did, well send that update and therefore I can also set up my listener
and use that
with this new update post function I copied in up there.
So let me now go up and here where I have my established listener for the post event,
I'll add an else/if block to see if the action maybe is updated
if it's not create in which case I'll call this update post and pass data.post to that.
Now before this will work, let me go back to the server side code and there since I do populate my creator
when finding that post in the update post function here, this check here will actually fail where I do check
if the ID which is now not the ID anymore but the full creator object is equal to the request user ID.
So here I actually want to access creator._id to string right because we're populating
the creator field with the full user data,
it's not just the ID anymore.
So we would fail editing this post
if we don't make this change. And now if we save both and we go back and reload both pages, I deleted
one post in the meantime so I only got two anymore
and let me now edit this a cup post here, add a couple of exclamation marks maybe and click
accept and you'll see it added or being changed on both clients.
So this is now also working.